Source URL: https://support.yotpo.com/docs/ometria-integration-guide-for-loyalty-referrals

Products
Loyalty & Referrals
Supported plans
Premium, Enterprise
eCommerce Platform
Shopify, Shopify Plus, BigCommerce, Salesforce Commerce Cloud, Adobe Commerce (Magento)
The Ometria integration with Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals enables you to store your Yotpo loyalty data against your Ometria contact and product records.
This integration automatically imports your live Loyalty contact data into Ometria, so you can personalize your campaigns and uncover new insights to inform your marketing strategy.
About Ometria
Ometria combines the data capabilities of a CDP with a cross-channel marketing orchestration platform, letting retail marketers create relevant experiences throughout the customer journey.
Before you begin
You’ll first need to do the following:
Create an API key in Ometria. To learn how, refer to the
Ometria help center
Find your Yotpo API key and GUID. To learn how, see
Finding your Loyalty & Referrals API Key and GUID
Setting up the integration
In Ometria, go to Settings and select the
Connections
tab.
Click
Add new connection
, then select
Yotpo loyalty & referrals
. The Ometria authentication screen displays.
Click
New authentication
.
Enter the API key you created at the beginning of the process and select
Create
.
Click
New authentication
.
Change your authentication name if you wish. This name will help you identify any other Yotpo accounts you might have added in Ometria.
Enter your Yotpo API key and GUID, and click
Create
.
Once the authentication is successful, click
Next
to reach the Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals webhook screen.
Copy the Webhook URL and log into your Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals account.
In Yotpo, go to
Settings > General Settings
, and paste the URL into the Yotpo Webhook URL field.
Tip:
If you already have a webhook registered, you can add this one in the same field by separating the URLs using semicolons (;).
Save these changes in Yotpo, then return to Ometria.
Select
Finish
. Your Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals connection is set up.
Now you’ve set up the integration, you’ll need to create your custom fields. To learn how, and to see some use cases for this integration, refer to the
Ometria Loyalty & Referrals integration page
.
Having issues with the integration?
Contact Ometria support by clicking
here
. at
support@ometria.com
.