Source URL: https://marketing.help.dotdigital.com/en/articles/8198950-triggered-campaigns-overview

Triggered campaigns overview
Generate leads and increase conversions with triggered campaigns for birthdays, preferences, seasons, and more.
Written by
Gareth Burroughes
Updated over 3 weeks ago
Table of contents
You can automate your emails and SMS messages, which means your marketing is working even when you're not, turning your lead and conversion generation into an automated production line.
Triggered campaigns can be used for a variety of reasons. Examples include customers' birthdays, buying patterns and preferences, seasons and holiday dates, and life cycle milestones.
Before you start
You must set up triggered or automated campaigns in your account if you want to use
the program builder
. This allows you to develop detailed automated programs.
Automation
To find your triggered email campaigns and automation requirements, go to
Automation
.
From here, you can access:
Programs
Triggered emails:
email campaigns for use in automation
Triggered SMS:
SMS campaigns for use in automation
Types of triggered campaigns and automation tools
There are several ways to use triggered campaigns and automation tools within the system:
Program builder
Create detailed automations using the program builder.
List triggers
Every time someone
joins
or
unsubscribes
from one of your lists, you can set a particular campaign to be sent to them automatically.
Date triggers
You can create one trigger or a series of triggers based on date fields within your lists. For example, if you hold the date of birth for your contacts, you could send a campaign automatically wishing them a happy birthday using the program builder.
Default auto responder
You can trigger a default response if a recipient replies to any one of your
email
or
SMS
campaigns, perhaps letting them know that they've replied to an unmonitored email address or a number and providing alternative contact details.
Specific auto responders for specific campaigns
or SMS trigger words
Trigger a specific auto-response for a
particular email campaign
or to a
particular word or phrase in an inbound SMS message
.
Verified double opt-in confirmation
You can set up a triggered email to
confirm your contacts really do want to receive your email
.
Resubscribe confirmation
When a contact chooses to resubscribe after having previously unsubscribed, a
triggered email is sent to them
to ask them to confirm their resubscription.
The first step in using any of these triggers is to make sure the campaign sent as a result of the trigger is created as a
triggered campaign
.
Related Articles
Email campaigns overview
Convert a standard campaign into a triggered campaign
Get started with automation
Send a triggered campaign on WhatsApp
Send triggered MMS messages
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
Table of contents