Source URL: https://marketing.help.dotdigital.com/en/articles/8199355-easyeditor-extensions-app-blocks-overview

EasyEditor extensions: App blocks overview
Pull content from other platforms and applications into your email campaigns, landing pages, and forms, without having to alter any code.
Written by
Gareth Burroughes
Updated over a week ago
Table of contents
App blocks are additional blocks that can be added to EasyEditor. These blocks are added to your account as account-scoped insight data collections. They are automatically converted into drag-and-drop building blocks within EasyEditor.
The specific process of adding a block to your account varies depending on the application you are using. However, in general, it involves a simple process of adding your Marketing API credentials to your account in the partner software.
Learn more
Learn more about API credentials in
Create an API user
.
Full details for each type of App block can be found in the
corresponding articles
.
Manage your App blocks
To manage your App blocks, go to
Connect
>
EasyEditor extensions
.
EasyEditor extensions displays the App block groups added to your account. Each extension shows the associated Insight data collection name, the number of blocks in each group, and indicates if any blocks contain errors.
App block errors
Errors with an App block normally need to be resolved by the third party who created the block.
View Insight data for a collection
To view an Insight data collection for an extension, select the
collection name
.
View App blocks in a group
To view the available App blocks in a group, select the
group name
.
The group page displays the block name, status (whether enabled or disabled), date of last modification, and any errors associated with the block. The page also indicates the editors in which the block can be utilised, such as email; Surveys, pages, and forms; or both.
View App block details
To view the details of an individual App block, select its
name
. This opens a side panel that displays information about the block and provides the option to enable or disable it.
To perform this action, toggle the
Status
switch to either
Enabled
or
Disabled
, and then select
APPLY
.
The side panel also displays an App block's description and links to any supplementary documentation, if available.
Enable or disable App blocks
To enable or disable multiple blocks, select the checkboxes for the blocks. Then, expand the
More actions
drop-down menu and choose the option to
enable
or
disable
the App block.
Disabled App blocks are not visible in EasyEditor.
Delete or disable App blocks
To delete App blocks that belong to a group, select the
checkbox
of the App block, then select
Delete
.
A popover appears, asking you to confirm the action. Select
Delete
.
There are no data dependencies in place to prevent you from deleting or disabling individual App blocks. If you delete or disable an App block that's in use:
You can't publish a page or form with a deleted or disabled App block added to it. A deleted or disabled App block in use on an already published page or form does not display.
A warning appears on the campaign summary page and campaign preview if you have included a deleted or disabled App block. Deleted or disabled App blocks no longer display in a recipient’s inbox.
Deleting EasyEditor extension Insight data
It's only possible to delete an
Insight data collection
for an EasyEditor App block if it is
not
in use in any email campaigns.
App blocks in EasyEditor
Enabled App blocks appear in EasyEditor on the
Build
tab of the left side menu. Each App block group that you have added to your account has its own drop-down in EasyEditor which contains the individual blocks within that group.
To add a block to your email campaign, page, or form, drag and drop it to the required position on the design canvas. A side panel opens with information about the block you have added.
For some blocks, you must complete some
data input
- for example, adding a data field placeholder to include a contact email address in the App block, or providing a product ID.
You can’t apply the App block and close the side panel until this data input is complete. Hover over the
tooltip
for more information on the data required. The individual documentation for different App blocks gives more information on any data inputs required.
Learn more in the
EasyEditor extensions section of the Help Centre
.
Once you’ve completed the setup for the block, select
Apply
.
Add App blocks to columns
You can use most App blocks within column blocks in EasyEditor. However, this functionality is only specific to some App blocks — not all apps are compatible.
App block styles
Some App blocks inherit the styles of your campaign, depending on how they were developed.
To style the content of your App blocks:
For app blocks that don’t inherit styles
Expand the
Utilities
drop-down menu.
Select
Manage all styles
.
Select
Edit
next to App block styles.
From here you can edit your App blocks
text
styles.
Learn more about using the Style manager in
Choose and manage styles
.
For App blocks that inherit styles
On the EasyEditor canvas, select the
App block
, to open the style options, then select
Style content
at the bottom of the side panel.
App block details
The styles side panel displays basic details that can be customised for each App block.
These details might include names, review counts, or colours used for App block elements. Follow the on-screen guidance to make changes to these details.
App block tracking
To help you track your App block performance, we apply your account-defined UTM parameters to any links within your App blocks.
Learn more about UTM parameters in
Add UTM tags to email campaign links
.
Related Articles
Build your campaign in EasyEditor
Images in EasyEditor
Add coupon codes to your campaigns with Uniqodo
Use Personalization Slots in EasyEditor
Use The Wishlist app blocks in EasyEditor
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
Table of contents