Source URL: https://marketing.help.dotdigital.com/en/articles/8199790-use-review-data-from-integrations-in-marketing

Use review data from integrations in Marketing
Use product and service review data from supported integrations to personalise campaigns and build automated program journeys.
Written by
Gareth Burroughes
Updated over 2 weeks ago
Table of contents
When you sync product and service review data from your integrations, Marketing stores it as Insight data. You can use this data to build targeted segments and create personalised program journeys based on customer feedback. Whether you're responding to positive reviews or nurturing unhappy customers, review data helps you tailor your communications and improve engagement.
This feature supports integrations such as Trustpilot, Yotpo, Judge.me, and others.
Before you start
You must connect an integration and ensure that review data is syncing to your contacts.
Some integrations only sync review data for existing contacts. Check your integration’s behaviour to ensure contacts are created or matched correctly.
​
Learn more in
Integrations by category
.
Use product and service review data in segments
Review data is stored in Marketing as contact insight, inside a collection called
Reviews
. Each review includes a
type
field that identifies whether it’s a product or service review.
When building a segment based on review data, you can filter by review type and other fields to target specific behaviours or preferences.
We store the following fields for each review record:
id
reviewdate
ratingscore
ratingcontent
productid
name
– product name (product reviews only)
sku
– product SKU (product reviews only)
brand
type
– identifies whether the review is for a product or a service
These fields are available in the segment builder, allowing you to create rules such as
all reviews for a specific product
or
all reviews with a rating score above 4
.
Field names may vary slightly depending on the integration, but the structure and segmentation options remain consistent across supported platforms.
Access review data within a segment
Go to
Audience
>
Segments
, and select the
Edit
icon to edit an existing segment, or
NEW SEGMENT
to create a new one.
Inside the segment builder, from the left side panel, drag an
Insight data block
into one of the segment dropzones, and select
click to select insight data
to edit the rules.
Expand the
drop-down menu
at the top of the
Insight data
window to select the
Reviews
insight data collection.
​
If you only have a small number of insight data collections, instead of an Insight data block, you might see individual blocks for each collection. If that’s the case, drag a
Reviews block
into your segment.
​
Set your contact filter using the radio buttons to choose between
Number of
,
Total of
and
Average of
, and then expand the
Contact filter
drop-down menu to choose and configure an
operator
.
​
You can hover over the label for each radio button to see an explanation of how each option affects the records shown in the final segment.
​
Expand the
Record filters
drop-down menu to choose
type
.
Type
Product
or
Service
and set other rules according to your preference.
Once you‘re happy with your rules, select
OK
to return to the segment builder.
The
Record filters
area allows you to build out simple or complex segment rules based on the review data you have stored against your contacts.
Learn more in
Using Insight data for segmentation
.
Use product and service review data in programs
You can configure automatic program enrolments for customers who leave a product or service review as part of the integration setup. Once these contacts have been enrolled, you can use Decision nodes containing segments to tailor the program journey based on specific information from a contact’s reviews.
Use cases
Send a follow-up email campaign containing
Also bought
product recommendations to customers who have reviewed a specific product highly.
Enrol contacts who have left a negative review into a nurture program aiming to retain their custom.
Example
Let’s look at how you can set up a program to send an email campaign to contacts who have left a positive review for a specific category of products, for example, jackets.
Go to
Automation
>
Programs
and select
NEW PROGRAM
.
Select
Blank template
and give the program a
name
.
Drag a
Start node
onto the canvas, select it, and set the
Enrolment schedule
to
No scheduled enrolment.
The integration pushes contacts directly into your program, so you don’t need to configure separate enrolment rules.
Add a
Decision node
which identifies contacts who:
have left a review that day (to ensure that you’re not identifying historic review data)
and
have reviewed a product where the name contains jacket
and
gave a review with a rating score of 4 or higher
Add an
End node
to the
No
path of your Decision node, to exit contacts who don’t meet the criteria from the program.
Add a
Campaign node
to the
Yes
path of your Decision node, to send an email campaign to those contacts who do meet the criteria.
Connect the
Campaign node
to the
End node
so that contacts exit the program once they have been sent the campaign.
This simple program allows you to target a specific group of contacts based on their review data and send them an email. There are many more things you can choose to do with automations.
Learn more
Working with the program builder
Use two-way decisions to branch automated programs
Use the multi decision node to branch programs to multiple outcomes
Related Articles
Use review data from integrations in Marketing
Integrate Yotpo Reviews with Marketing
Use Stamped review data in Marketing
Integrate Judge.me Reviews with Marketing
Integrate Bazaarvoice with Marketing
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
Table of contents