Source URL: https://marketing.help.dotdigital.com/en/articles/8198850-email-campaigns-overview

Email campaigns overview
An email campaign is an email that you create, store, and send from your account.
Written by
Gareth Burroughes
Updated this week
Table of contents
After
creating an email campaign
, you can perform the following actions:
Preview
your campaign to see how it looks on different devices.
Test send
your campaign to see how it will look in different email clients and different devices.
Alternatively, you can
pay for an inbox and spam filter test
for an extensive set of results.
Track
your campaign to see how it performs after it's been sent.
Send
your campaign to different lists or segments.
Translate
your campaign or its blocks into 39 languages using Dotdigital AI.
Types of email campaigns
You can create the following two types of email campaigns:
Standard campaign
A standard campaign is sent manually
, either immediately or scheduled for a later time.
A standard campaign is the only type of campaign that can be
sent as a split test
(also known as
A/B testing
).
Triggered campaign
A triggered
campaign is sent automatically
when an action or certain criteria are met, for example:
When contacts reply to your campaign, you can
send them an automated campaign as an auto-responder
.
When contacts opt in to a list, you can
send them an automated campaign as a join action
.
When contacts opt in to a list, you can
send them an automated campaign as a confirmation email
.
When contacts reach a node in the program builder, you can
send them an automated campaign through the campaign node
.
When contacts click on specific links in your campaigns, you can automatically trigger targeted follow-up emails tailored to their interests.
If you'd like to automatically send one of your standard campaigns, you can
change its type from standard to trigger
ed
.
Personalise content in email campaigns
We offer the following options for sending personalised content to contacts:
Dynamic content
: Displays personalised content for contacts depending on the values of their contact data fields.
External dynamic content
: Displays personalised content that's served from an external server.
Liquid
: Displays personalised content, using a subset of Liquid markup language.
Send email campaigns in different languages
As well as our default character encoding of Unicode (UTF-8), which is best for Latin-based characters, we also offer
character encodings that support other languages
.
See also
Manage folders
Related Articles
Get started with email
Campaign setup
Program messaging channel: Email campaign
Create an SMS campaign
Use email single send in Microsoft Dynamics
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
Table of contents