Source URL: https://marketing.help.dotdigital.com/en/articles/8199358-add-yotpo-reviews-to-campaigns-pages-and-forms

Add Yotpo reviews to campaigns, pages, and forms
Showcase the highly rated products available on your store to your contacts and potentially increase your orders.
Written by
Gareth Burroughes
Updated over a week ago
Table of contents
Yotpo reviews App blocks allow you to add 5-star product reviews from your store into your email campaigns, pages, and forms using EasyEditor.
Before you start
The Yotpo product reviews integration must be installed on your account.
​
If the Yotpo integration is already installed on your account but you cannot access Yotpo App blocks in EasyEditor, you might have to delete and reinstall the integration.
Learn more in
Integrate Yotpo with Marketing
.
​
Yotpo reviews must be enabled in your account’s EasyEditor extensions.
​
Learn more in
EasyEditor extensions: App blocks overview
.
​
Yotpo reviews App blocks can be used in
email campaigns
and
pages and forms
.
​
Yotpo App blocks can be placed on the base canvas and inside columns. They
cannot
be placed in dynamic content blocks. You
can
place them inside base Container blocks in the Surveys, pages, and forms EasyEditor.
App block types
The following Yotpo reviews App blocks are available to use in your email campaigns and pages and forms:
App block
Description
Required information
Product: ID
Shows three of the most recent 5-star reviews for a chosen product ID listed in your store.
This block requires you to enter the product’s ID as it is displayed on your store.
Product: Name
Shows three of the most recent 5-star reviews for a chosen product listed in your store.
This block requires you to enter the product’s name as it is displayed on your store.
Recent: 5-star
Shows the three most recent 5-star product reviews from your site.
This block does not require you to enter any product information.
Add app blocks in EasyEditor
In EasyEditor, go to
Build
>
Yotpo reviews
.
Drag a
Yotpo reviews block
onto the canvas.
Select the
block
to open the settings side panel.
Enter your chosen product’s
Product data
as it is displayed on your store into the product data box.
​
Learn more in
App block types
.
To save, select
Apply
.
Select
Preview
to open the preview tool and see what your App block looks like.
Edit App block styles
To style the content of your App blocks, on the EasyEditor canvas, select the App block to open the style options, then select
Style content
at the bottom of the side panel.
Block details
The styles side panel displays basic details that can be customised for each App block.
These details might include names, review counts, or colours used for App block elements. Follow the on-screen guidance to make changes to these details.
Review star colour picker
To change the colour of your review stars, use the colour picker. You can choose from the colours already used in the campaign or select a completely different colour.
Learn more about using the Style manager in
Choose and manage styles
.
Related Articles
Tools: Add a product from your catalog
Product recommendations in campaigns, pages, or forms
Add Trustpilot reviews to campaigns, pages, and forms
Add coupon codes to your campaigns with Uniqodo
Add Judge.me reviews to campaigns, pages, and forms
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
Table of contents