Source URL: https://support.yotpo.com/docs/integrating-yotpo-loyalty-referrals-with-dotdigital

Products
Loyalty
Supported plans
Premium, Enterprise
eCommerce Platform
Shopify, Shopify Plus, Adobe Commerce (Magento), BigCommerce, Salesforce Commerce Cloud, Custom
Is this article for me?
This article is relevant if you’re using the
Dotdigital-built integration between Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals and Dotdigital
.
If you’re using Yotpo’s legacy integration with Dotdigital, please contact
Dotdigital support
and refer to their
migration guide
.
Integration Overview
The integration allows you to sync loyalty data from Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals into your Dotdigital account. Once connected, you can:
Sync customer loyalty attributes (e.g., points balance, tier, referrals, birthday)
Segment contacts based on loyalty data
Trigger automated campaigns based on loyalty events
Personalize emails using loyalty data
The connection is initiated from your Yotpo Loyalty admin, and the configuration is completed in Dotdigital.
In this article, you’ll learn how to connect your Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals account to Dotdigital.
Before You Begin
Make sure you have access to your:
Yotpo Loyalty admin
Dotdigital admin
Yotpo App Key, API Key, and GUID during setup.
You can
take your App Key here
, and your
API Key and GUID here
.
Step 1: Connect Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals to Dotdigital (Yotpo admin)
In your Yotpo Loyalty admin, go to
Integrations Center
.
Locate the
Dotdigital for Yotpo Loyalty
tile and click to connect the integration.
Follow the
connection steps
on the screen.
You will be taken to your Dotdigital admin to
complete the setup
.
Step 2: Complete the Integration Setup (Dotdigital admin)
Authorize the connection in Dotdigital
After connecting Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals to Dotdigital, you’ll be redirected to authorize the connection in Dotdigital.
Follow the steps here
to complete the connection.
Configure the contact sync settings
Choose how contacts are synced:
Sync all Yotpo contacts, or
Update only existing Dotdigital contacts
Configure the loyalty opt-in preferences
Decide which customers are synced:
Only opted-in loyalty members, or
All customers (incl. non-opted users)
Map your data fields
Choose
Yes
if you want to manually select and map specific data fields for your sync. Otherwise, default data field mappings will be used for your integration.
(Optional)
Map your campaigns using loyalty events
You can map Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals events to automated Campaigns and Programs in Dotdigital. When a selected event occurs in Yotpo, Dotdigital can automatically trigger a campaign.
What Data Is Shared in the Integration
Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals Customer Attributes
Attribute
Description
First name
Customer’s first name.
Last name
Customer’s last name.
Has_account
Whether the customer has a store account.
Current_tier
Customer’s current tier name.
Current_tier_ends
Date when the customer’s tier expires.
Points_earned
Number of points earned.
Amount_spent
Annual amount spent by the customer.
Purchases_made
Number of purchases made by the customer.
Referrals_completed
Number of completed referrals by the customer.
Points_balance
Customer’s current points balance.
Points_expire_at
Date when the customer’s points expire.
Referral_code
Customer’s unique referral discount code. Only applicable to code-based referrals.
Amount_needed
Amount needed to maintain the customer’s current tier.
Purchases_needed
Purchases needed to maintain the customer’s current tier.
Points_needed
Points needed to maintain the customer’s current tier.
New_tier_multiplier
Points multiplier applied to the next tier that the customer could achieve.
Nxtpts_expire
Date when a customer's points expire.
Days_to_expiry
Number of days left before the points expire.
Nxtpts_expire_amnt
Number of points that are about to expire.
Next_pts_needed
Points needed to reach next tier.
Next_amnt_needed
Amount needed to reach the next tier.
Next_purch_needed
Number of purchases the customer must complete to reach the next tier.
Next_refer_needed
Number of referrals the customer must make to reach the next tier.
Birthday
Customer’s birthday.
Reward_text
If a customer is gifted a coupon for their birthday reward, this is the coupon code.
Reward_points
If a customer is gifted points for their birthday reward, this is how many points they were gifted.
Referral_link
Customer’s unique referral link.
Credit_balance
Current available credit balance (if points are displayed as credit based on your variable redemption reward settings).
Payout_percent
Payout percentage set for this customer. Only populated if the customer is marked as an affiliate.
Has_tax_details
If the customer provided tax details for the influencer program and is marked as doing so in the Yotpo Loyalty admin, the value here is 1.
If they did not provide tax details, this is 0.
Only populated if the customer is marked as an affiliate.
Is_Affiliate
Indicates if the customer is marked as an affiliate.
affiliate_email
If this customer has a separate email for their Paypal/affiliate commission, this will populate with that alternate email address.
total_amnt_earned
If the customer is marked as an affiliate, this will populate with the total amount in commission they've earned with Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals.
After your customer attributes have been synced, you’ll be able to see them within your
Contacts
under
Data Fields
.
Available Loyalty Events for Campaign Mapping
Campaign events
Referral Link Share
Donation Created
Redemption Below Threshold
Points Changed
Referral Completed
Program events
Loyalty Opt-in/out
Birthday Captured
Anniversary Captured
Points Reminder
Points Expiration Reminder
Redemption Reminder
Customer Birthday
Customer Anniversary
Tier Earned
Tier Lost
Points Earned
Referral Share Reminder
Creating a Loyalty & Referrals Campaign in Dotdigital
Once your customer attributes and events are synced, you can start building automated campaigns in Dotdigital. Below is a quick overview of how to include Yotpo loyalty attributes (“markers”) in your campaigns.
To create or edit a triggered campaign:
In Dotdigital, go to the
Email
tab.
Under
Automation
, select
Triggered Email
.
Locate the campaign you want to edit and click the
Edit
icon.
You’ll be taken to the
Content
section of the campaign.
To add loyalty personalization:
Click
Insert Action
.
Select
Personalize
to view available customer markers (including synced loyalty attributes).
Click into the email body where you’d like to insert the marker.
Select the relevant attribute (e.g., points balance, referral link, tier name).
Click
Save & Continue
when ready.
You’ve now created a Dotdigital campaign powered by Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals events and attributes.