Source URL: https://support.yotpo.com/docs/setting-up-custom-action-earning-rules-on-shopify

Products
Loyalty & Referrals
Supported plans
Premium, Enterprise
eCommerce Platform
Shopify, Shopify Plus
Goals and Outcomes
The Custom Action is an
advanced earning rule
that enables you to reward customers for performing specific actions. This feature allows you to design unique earning rules that align with your business goals.
Key Benefits
:
Create custom earning rules tailored to your customers, such as
weekly draws, donation-based rewards, form submissions,
and
online gaming events
.
Integrate with third-party applications to reward customers for completing actions on external platforms.
Custom Action earning rules provide a creative way to engage customers and incentivize meaningful interactions with your brand. In this article, you’ll learn how to set them up on Shopify.
Important
Custom Action earning rules require technical expertise and the use of API.
Is this article for me?
If you’re not using Shopify or Shopify Plus, follow this
Custom Action earning rule guide
for other e-commerce platforms.
Creating a Custom Action Earning Rule
To create a Custom Action earning rule on Shopify and Shopify Plus, follow these steps:
From your Yotpo admin, go to
Manage Program
>
Rewards Program
.
Under
Ways to earn
, click
Create earning rule
.
Go to the
Advanced
section and select
Custom Action
.
Click
Next
.
Configuring a Custom Action Earning Rule
General Settings
Custom Action settings
- use Yotpo’s API to create the earning rule setup. Keep in mind that this earning rule can only be triggered via API.
Action name
- the name you’ll use in the API call to trigger the earning rule.
Reward type
- choose whether to reward customers with points or a discount for meeting the rule criteria. Use the
Advanced settings
to customize who the rule will apply to.
Rewards history text
- the text that will appear in the customers’ rewards history.
Advanced Settings
Target audience
Restrict by customer
- Configure the lists and segments to determine which customers are eligible for the earning rule or should be excluded from it.
Minimum times completed
- The minimum number of times a customer must perform this action to receive a reward.
If you select a number higher than 1, you can set a waiting period between each action completion. For example, if you select 1 week, the customer will have to wait that long before they can do the action again.
Maximum times completed
- The maximum number of times each customer can participate in this earning rule.
If you select a number higher than 1, you can set a waiting period between rewards, meaning the customer will have to wait this long (e.g., 2 weeks) to be able to complete the rule again and earn another reward. If they attempt to complete the rule during the waiting period, they won’t receive a reward.
Restrict by VIP tiers
VIP tiers
- select which
VIP tiers
the Custom Action earning rule will apply to.
Schedule rule
- configure how long the rule will run for. It can be an ongoing campaign or a limited-time promotion.
Setting up the API
To reward customers for completing an action outside your Yotpo loyalty program, you need to establish a communication of action completion either by
manually sending an API call
OR by automating the API call.
Important
API calls must be made
server-side
or through a
proxy server
.
If attempted from the
client side
, a
CORS error
will occur, as this could expose sensitive data.
To automate the API call, you need to use this
API endpoint
and follow the steps below:
Decide on the action to be performed and assign its action name.
Create the automation that triggers the API call to Yotpo. This requires your developer to add a code snippet where the event fires (e.g., on a form’s "Submit" button).
Sample code snippet format
To adjust the code below, do the following:
Replace
CustomAction
with the desired action name (e.g., completed_form).
Replace
guid
with your unique identifier, found in Settings.
Replace
x-api-key
with your API key, also found in Settings.
For complete directions, refer to
our dev documentation
.
Need to find your API Key?
For instructions on how to find your Merchant ID and Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals API Key, click
here
.
Once you've set up the API, you can configure your Custom Action earning rule using the action name you created.