Source URL: https://support.yotpo.com/docs/creating-loyalty-referrals-workflows-in-shopify-flow

Products
Loyalty & Referrals
Supported plans
Premium, Enterprise
eCommerce Platform
Shopify Plus
With the release of the Shopify Flow and Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals
connector
, it's easier than ever to reward your customers with points for completing any combination of actions, conditions, and triggers made on Shopify.
In this article, you’ll learn how to set up a Loyalty & Referrals workflow using Shopify Flow, including an example workflow that rewards shoppers for subscribing to your newsletter.
Before You Start
If you haven’t used the Flow app yet,
head to the Shopify app store to install it
.
Setting up a Shopify Workflow
To set up a Shopify workflow:
From your Shopify admin, go to
Apps
.
Launch the
Flow
app.
Click
Create Workflow
.
Select
Add trigger
to start your workflow. This is the event you want to use to reward customers at the end of the workflow.
Example Flow: Rewarding Points for Email Subscriptions
For example, let’s say you want to reward shoppers when they subscribe to email marketing.
In
Shopify Flow
, select the trigger:
Customer subscribed to email marketing
.
(Optional) Add conditions if you’d like to further target the action. For example, you can add conditions for customer tags or segment membership.
Next, click
+Add Action
and select:
Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals → Reward Points
.
Fill out the fields on the right:
Name of completed action
– Choose a descriptive name, such as
email_sub
. You’ll use this again in the Custom Action campaign in Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals.
Email address of customer
– Use
{{customer.email}}
, since Yotpo uses the email address to identify the customer in Loyalty & Referrals.
What type of campaign?
– Set this to CustomAction.
How many points to award?
– Enter the number of points customers will earn for signing up.
Description for customer’s history (optional)
– You can add a description here (e.g., “Email sign-up reward”). If left blank, it will use the
Action text
from your custom action rule.
Connecting the flow to Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals
To connect the flow to Yotpo, you need to
create a custom action earning rule
:
In your Yotpo Loyalty admin, go to
Rewards Program > Create earning rule
.
Select
Custom Action
and click
Next
.
Configure the rule:
Under
Action Name
, enter the exact name you used in the Shopify Flow (for example,
email_sub
).
Set the number of points you want to reward and add an
Action text
.
Complete the setup by defining any restrictions in the
Advanced settings
.
Tip
Configure the rule to award points only once per customer, so shoppers aren’t rewarded multiple times if their subscription status changes.
Create
the rule.
You're all set.
Anytime customers trigger this flow, they will receive the designated points you’ve set in Yotpo Loyalty & Referrals.
Note
Rewards are based only on Shopify’s native email subscription field.
If you’re using Klaviyo or another ESP, make sure subscription events are forwarded to Shopify so that Yotpo can capture them. For Klaviyo, the “Forward to Shopify“ setting must be enabled.